A bad workman always blames his tools.
A bird in hand is worth two in the bush.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
A cat has nine lives.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
Actions speak louder than words.
A drowning man will clutch at a straw.
Adversity and loss make a man wise.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A journey of thousand miles begins with a single step.
A leopard doesn’t change its spots.
All good things come to an end.
All’s well that ends well.
All that glitters is not gold.
All’s fair in love and war.
Always put your best foot forward.
Among the blind the one-eyed man is king.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
An empty vessel makes much noise.
An idle brain is the devil’s workshop.
An ounce of protection is worth a pound of cure.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
Appearances can be deceptive.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A ship in the harbor is safe, but that is not what a ship is for.
A stitch in time saves nine.
As you sow, so you shall reap.
A thing begun is half done.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Be slow in choosing, but slower in changing.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
Beauty is only skin deep.
Beggars can’t be choosers.
Best things in life are free.
Better late than never.
Better to be poor and healthy rather than rich and sick.
Better to wear out than to rust out.
Blood is thicker than water.
Cleanliness is next to Godliness.
Clothes do not make the man.
Cowards die many times before their deaths.
Cross the stream where it is shallowest.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Curses, like chickens, come home to roost.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Don’t bite off more than you can chew.
Don’t bite the hand that feeds you.
Don’t blow your own trumpet.
Don’t cast pearls before swine.
Don’t count your chickens before they hatch.
Don’t cross a bridge until you come to it.
Don’t judge a book by its cover.
Don’t kill the goose that lays the golden eggs.
Don’t put all your eggs in one basket.
Don’t put the cart before the horse.
Don’t throw the baby with the bathwater.
Early bird catches the worm.
Easy come, easy go.
Empty bags cannot stand upright.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every dog has his day.
Every man is the architect of his destiny.
Every man has his price.
Fall seven times. Stand up eight.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
Fortune favors the brave.
Get out while the going (getting) is good.
Give them an inch and they’ll take a mile.
God helps those who help themselves.
Good things come to those who wait.
Grief divided is made lighter.
Half a loaf is better than none.
Honesty is the best policy.
Hope for the best, prepare for the worst.
If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.
If the mountain won’t come to Muhammad, Muhammad must go to the mountain.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
If you can’t beat them, join them.
If you play with fire, you’ll get burned.
Ignorance is bliss.
It’s better to be safe than sorry.
It’s easy to be wise after the event.
It’s never too late to mend.
It’s not over till it’s over.
It’s no use crying over spilt milk.
It takes two to make a quarrel.
It takes two to tango.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Laughter is the best medicine.
Learn to walk before you run.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Life begins at forty.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
Look before you leap.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Money doesn’t grow on trees.
Money talks.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Never put off until tomorrow what you can do today.
Never test the depth of water with both feet.
No gain without pain.
No news is good news.
Once bitten twice shy.
One man’s junk is another man’s treasure.
One shouldn’t miss forest for the trees.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Pen is mightier than sword.
People who live in glass houses shouldn’t throw stones at others.
Persuasion is better than force.
Practice makes perfect.
Practice what you preach.
Rome wasn’t built in a day.
Silence is half consent.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Still waters run deep.
Strike while the iron is hot.
The best-laid plans go astray.
The end justifies the means.
The harder you work, the luckier you get.
The grass is greener on the other side of the fence.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
There are more ways than one to skin a cat.
There is no time like the present.
There is safety in numbers.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The show must go on.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Two heads are better than one.
Two wrongs don’t make a right.
Watch the doughnut, and not the hole.
What goes around comes around.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
Where there’s a will, there’s a way.
Where there’s smoke there’s fire.
Where one door shuts, another opens.
While the cat’s away, the mice will play.
You can catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
You can lead a horse to water but you can’t make it drink.
You can’t always get what you want.
You can’t fit a round peg in a square hole.
You can’t have your cake and eat it too.
You can’t make an omelette without breaking eggs.
You can’t teach an old dog new tricks.
You can’t unscramble an egg.
You can’t win them all.
You show me the man and I’ll show you the rule.
